One quick question about bindings,
are bindings synchronous?
>> Okay, so there was a question about
whether bindings are synchronous or not,
and that's a really interesting question.
The answer is they update
the state synchronously.
So when you have a bind
value on a text input,
it is essentially as if you had
an on input event handler, and
you are assigning to the value
inside that event handler.
So in that sense, it is synchronous.
But like all state updates,
that will be batched, and
it won't update the DOM until we've
waited for the current microtask.
Now, because you're interacting
with the element yourself,
the binding isn't gonna need to update
the input, if that makes sense.
Because if you have an input and
you type in some text,
the input already has that text.
So we don't need to wait for the binding
to go all the way around and then get
fed back into the input as it were because
it's already in the desired end state.
But the update to anything else in the DOM
that references that piece of state,
that will happen after
the current microtask.
Getting super in the weeds here,
but hopefully that made sense.
>> How does using await blocks
differ to using onMount as below,
and so he's got let data
onMount in the brackets async.
The data equals await
get data from backend.
I found myself having to do
the below to avoid undefined
errors before we migrated to SvelteKit and
using +page.ts load.
So maybe I was using onMount improperly.
>> So there is a little bit
of a gotcha with onMount.
If you look at the reference
documentations,
svelte.dev/docs and
look at the onMount area,
it will tell you that you should
not return a promise from onMount.
And any time you have an async function,
that function will return a promise.
It's just how async functions work.
And the reason for
that is that we need to get a reference to
the teardown callback for
when the component is unmounted, and
that needs to happen synchronously for
a variety of reasons.
So your onMount callbacks should
be synchronous functions,
they should not be async functions.
You can use async inside
an onMount function by creating,
I believe it's called
a synchronous immediately
invoked function expression or IIFE.
So you create an async function, and then
you put the parentheses at the end of it,
so it will call it.
And you can use the await
keyword inside your IIFE, but
you don't want the onMount callback
itself to be an async function.
Maybe we'll change that in a future
version of Svelte, I don't know, but for
now, avoid that per the documentation.
>> How does onMount impact the performance
when the components have a waterfall
effect or some sort?
>> Yes, so if you're doing your
asynchronous work inside onMount,
by which I mean like fetching data and
things like that,
then that work doesn't begin until
the component gets mounted to the screen.
And if you have a component that only
becomes visible when the result of some
async operation completes inside onMount,
then if it has its own async operations.
Then you'll render the parent component
that will eventually render the child
component, which will do amazing work.
Maybe that eventually renders another
child component, and that is what
we call a waterfall, and that is something
that we very much want to avoid.
In general, I do not recommend doing data
fetching inside your onMount components.
There is a way of doing data fetching
asynchronously, which we'll learn
about in SvelteKit, and that is by far
the preferred way to deal with data.
Not just because it avoids
that waterfall problem, but
also because it works with
server-side rendering.
Server-side rendering does not work
with onMount because there is no DOM on
the server, you're not mounting anything.
So when you do work inside
an onMount handler,
that will have no effect on any
content that you're server rendering.
SSR is a thing that we're gonna
cover in this SvelteKit workshop.
For now, the takeaway is avoid doing your
data fetching in onMount if you can and
come back for the SvelteKit workshop
to learn about data fetching.
>> If you have lots of
await blocks in your HTML,
would there be a better
way to organize this?
Also, is there a way to do something like
promise.all for multiple await blocks?
>> So if you have a promise.all,
you would put that inside, I mean,
you can have an inline promise.all
inside an await function.
But you probably want to do any really
tricky async logic inside your script
block or even in an external module,
because as the question suggests,
it can start to get a little bit hairy.
But this again is the kind of stuff that
is better moved into your data fetching
layer, which happens before rendering, and
that's something that we'll talk
about when we learn SvelteKit.
>> Several people in chat are not sure
what the tick does, and what does it do?
[LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] Okay, so the nuts and
bolts of what tick does is, all right, so
when you assign to a value in a component,
the compiler instruments
that assignment with
a secret internal function
called invalidate.
And invalidate has two jobs.
It marks that value as dirty inside
the component, and it tells a scheduler
that is shared by all components
that this component has changed.
And when that happens,
the batching starts.
So Svelte will create a promise
that will immediately resolve, and
then it will wait to see if any other
state updates happen before that
promise resolves in the next microtask.
If you call tick,
you will get a reference to that promise.
So at the end of that resolution,
the DOM will be updated and
the promise returned from your
tick function will resolve.
If most state updates were happening,
then it will just be like
calling await promise.resolve.
And it will essentially just defer
some work until the next microtask.
Again, super in the weeds.
Most of the time, you don't really
need to worry about how it's working.
You just need to know that it's
gonna cause anything after
the await tick to happen
in the next microtask.
Which is a fancy way of saying
it will happen after the current
execution block has happened,
but before the DOM is updated.
So you're not gonna see
things like flicker.
It's not like if you're doing
a set timeout or something, and
then you potentially see things
in the page become out of sync.
Everything will happen before
the DOM is updated, but
after the current execution block.
Hopefully that makes sense.
>> What does this dot refer to?
>> It's a great question.
Okay, so down here, we have
this.selectionStart = selectionEnd,
this.selectionEnd = selectionEnd.
The this inside an event
handler refers to the element
that the event handler is bound to.
So here,
we're calling on:keydown=handleKeydown.
Function blah,
const textarea = event.currentTarget.
And hopefully, this is gonna work.
If I press a key here,
then we're gonna see this alert(this
=== textarea) alert were true.
It worked, okay, good.
I have remembered how the DOM works.
Anytime you have an event handler,
this is the event target.
Just a convenient way to interact
with the DOM imperatively.
Chris, you had a question?
>> Yeah, going back to the use of tick and
how that's used to help resolve promises,
is it possible then that you
would have to call await tick multiple
times in the same code block?
>> You should not need to, no.
Now I can't really imagine a situation
in which you'd wanna do that,
unless you needed to do something
like you change some state, and
then you wait further down to update.
So that maybe you can take
a measurement like a width and
a height measurement of an element so
that you can then set some more state,
and then that has a knock on
effect that you need to await.
I guess it's possible to get into
a situation where that's the case, but
it's not something that you would
encounter often is what I mean.
All right,
any more questions from the Internet,
or should we move on to
the final section of part one?
>> Just a couple of clarifications, so.
So basically, a tick is like useEffect or
useLayoutEffect in React.
Yeah, I guess, so useLayoutEffect is
where you declare a function that is
gonna happen every time
the dependencies of that effect change.
When you call tick, it's happening in
some code that is already running, and
it will only happen once, of course.
But you would use it in much the same
context as you would use useLayoutEffect,
which is to take some
measurement of the DOM or
to do something in response
to the DOM updating.
Whereas useEffect, you don't have the same
guarantees about the callback getting
executed immediately after
the DOM has been updated.
They reserve the right to do
that after a period of time.